In the previous video, we have done configuring
telnet in the router.
Next in this video, we are going to configure
ssh in the router.
Remember that ssh is more secure than telnet.
So the best practice is, always use ssh in
the production.
Never use telnet.
Okay let’s just start.
To configure ssh, we need to create a key.
The command is crypto key generate rsa.
Okay here we can see that before generate
a key, we need to change the default hostname first.
Let’s change the hostname, let’s say Core-Router.
Now Let’s try to generate a key again.
Okay here we can see that we also need to
configure domain-name before generate a key.
Let’s configure the domain-name, the command
is ip domain-name and then the domain,
let’s say here I use agunacourse.com
Now let’s try to generate a key again.
Okay here we can see that we don’t have
an error anymore, so remember that before
generating a key, we need to configure hostname
& domain-name first.
Here, how many bits in the modulus?
Let’s use 1024.
Okay now we have done creating a key for ssh.
Next we need to change the transport input
in the line vty.
If you remember, earlier we configure the
transport input to telnet.
If the transport input is telnet, so we can
not remote the router using ssh.
So now let’s change it, go to line vty 0
2, and then transport input ssh.
Now we have done configuring ssh in the router.
Next let’s try to remote the router using
ssh.
Let’s close it first.
And then here let’s open telnet or ssh client
again.
Choose ssh, and then put the router ip address,
and here we need to type the username,
let’s say we will use user1.
Connect, and here we need to type the password,
the password is password1.
Okay here we can see that we have successfully
remote the router using ssh.
I think enough for this video
Thankyou for watching and see you on the next video.